with our words and our deeds we show
each other what's ideal we show each
other what's the minimum standard we're
expected to live up to and we show each
other what's normal also in many ways
the most worrying aspect of the fame of
people like freely and durianrider is
precisely that they gave us a corrosive
sense of what is normal on the internet
on our part of the internet within
so-called vegan activism within the
digital vegan demi-monde whatever you
want to say you've heard me state those
concerns in the past you've heard me say
that evil is not what happens when evil
people do evil things it's what happens
when good people sit idly by and do
nothing okay today is the day that
freely and during writer got around to
deleting the vegan cheetahs channel to
my knowledge the actual complaints
against his channel were filed by freely
and by vegan Ava and the nature of the
complaint did state this to Charles he
received a receipt so to speak he
received the form letting him know the
nature of the complaint and who filed it
against him I have concerns not just
about freely and durianrider i also have
concerns about charles and what he's
been doing with his content this video
does not exist for me to state my
unqualified support for the vegan
cheetah because firstly he is my friend
but i don't believe that friendship is a
relationship of unqualified support I
believe that friendship is a
relationship of qualified support we
support our friends with qualifications
with concerns with questions with doubts
and it's very important that we retain
the ability to discuss those questions
as questions a question is different
from an accusation a question is
different from defamation a question is
different from jumping to a conclusion
making a video slandering someone or
just blackening their character assuming
the worst about them filling in the
blanks and then afterwards waiting for
them to respond after you said that the
most outrageous thing possible okay even
from what I've just said now I think it
will be clear to you that my concerns
are not only about Harley and freely
many of the people who are critics of
Harley and freely have ended up
reproducing some of the worst aspects of
the Harley and freely freak show I have
recently seen I think both Joe vegan and
cheetah refer to some other vegans here
on YouTube vegan personalities as white
supremacists and I have never seen them
produce any evidence any arguments you
know any quotation from those people
that indicates that there there even a
little bit racist let alone that they're
white supremacists there is no standard
for what's acceptable or unacceptable
but i have to tell you from my
perspective that is unacceptable and i
made videos in the past dealing with the
fact that there were false accusations
against bite size vegan bite size vegan
was falsely accused of being a racist
and a white supremacist and there was a
whole controversy surrounding it and
meanwhile as a point of the video there
are vegans here on youtube who really
are white supremacist who really are
racists in some cases who really are
nazis who openly glorify adolf hitler
and there's an implicit choice in
blackening someone's character who is
not racist or who wears
really no evidence of the being white
supremacist as opposed to tackling
actual white supremacist so those are
all issues for those who have been fans
much everyone those are all things have
spoken about before and simply to be
honest I assumed I would speak about
them again with cheetah I simply have no
reason to make a video attacking him
denouncing him or assuming the worst
about him what i would do is talk to him
about it you know directly by email and
you know he and I make podcast together
we will record videos together I Steve a
sort of think he and I could talk about
probably be a very interesting
conversation and share with his viewers
share with people like you that's
interesting for everyone involved and so
you see already even where there's a
serious difference of opinion there's
the possibility of really doing
something productive of that really
doing something productive working with
that difference of opinion if we can
just appreciate the difference between a
question and an accusation what we're
going through the big picture here on
the small screen on YouTube what we're
going through is a process of
disambiguation the rules by which the
game were played were ambiguous to all
the players is it acceptable or
unacceptable for durianrider to insult
my mom to doc's me I don't know who
decides we decide all of us right here
right now that's why I made this big
deal out of saying you know evil is what
happens when good people stand by and do
nothing in Middle Eastern culture in
North Africa in in the parts of the
Middle East I've had contact with to
insult someones mother like that is a
big deal uh it leads to trouble
insulting someone's month away during
writers old mother I'm not Middle
Eastern I'm not Italian Italians also
can get very very angry and violent if
you upset their mother I didn't respond
that way I don't think that's anywhere
near the most serious
a question that's been raised by during
medical but it's still a question it
still is a question daxing people
bringing their mom into it bringing
their wife into it bringing their kid
into it does that cross the line who
decides you decide we decide and some of
you guys felt I was being unfair in
calling out Ali Tabrizi because Ali
tabrizi was a friend of mine he was
someone who knew me well enough even
though we're not the closest friends he
was a close enough friend to know that
the accusation against me were a hundred
percent false so if those accusations
are made against somebody you know where
you know it's a lie you know it's a
malicious lie you know the threats of
violence are backed up by nothing they
were never based on a sincere concern
for the well-being or safety of the
women of the festival there was no
excuse when you know the nature of the
evil the motivation for it you know the
outcomes you know the harm its gonna do
to me the harm its gonna do to us as a
little vegan demi-monde the long-term
harm it could do to veganism itself what
does it mean for you for me for us if
you sit by and do nothing I still think
that's an important question and i still
think everyone has to go through this
process of disambiguation well you can't
sit in the fence anymore we've seen that
now I mean you know a happy healthy
vegan so many channel though vegan gains
himself so many people who would have
been more comfortable sitting on the
fence remaining vague remaining
non-committal or trying to remain
friends with both sides so many people
sooner or later were forced to take a
stand we're forced to make it
unambiguously clear here's the line
here's where I draw the line here's
where we should draw the line and here's
how you've crossed that now again this
is another case with there's no real
debate nobody is debating whether or not
durianrider and freely have crossed the
line numerous times before and yet again
now nobody really thought it was
acceptable for durianrider to accuse me
of being a sexual predator say he was
going to beat me up it says these things
were so outrageous they're ridiculous
nobody thinks it's acceptable for
you know cheetahs channel to be deleted
these things are not debatable but
what's interesting to me is that
actually at the same time some of the
things that happy healthy vegan has just
been trying to debate some of the
questions raised by cheetahs own conduct
Amazo channel i think they are debatable
i think their debates worth having i
think that you know calling someone a
white supremacist III think that's
defamation of a very serious kind and
how does it compare you know okay so
bringing in someone's mom someone's wife
or daughter you know as opposed to
defaming them as a white supremacist
word again to my knowledge there's no
substance to that and there was no care
taken to make a case or prove it or what
have you I think those still are debates
worth having I think there are
ambiguities here that are really worth
being concerned about on all sides so
for me that makes this a much more
dynamic and peculiar situation than it
might otherwise be I'm concerned that so
few of my fellow vegans are interested
in the facts are interested in doing the
right thing for the right reasons and
that so many of my fellow vegans are
simply interested in supporting their
friends because you're friends with them
are so interested in attacking someone
simply because you consider them your
enemy that's just incompatible with
politics period they're not politically
sophisticated attitudes these are not
workable useful attitudes how is it that
so many people think that I exposed
private emails between myself and
unnatural vegan where is there even one
video here on YouTube of me putting up
private emails between us she put up one
email in one video her own her own email
and she reported correctly that when she
asked for my permission to post private
emails I said no because I think that's
immoral and inappropriate and
counterproductive how is it that so many
people think I posted a private emails
to myself and Ann began in that dispute
I never did and it was completely
privacy I never been any public
statement but I never should have but
she posted publicly male she took my
public correspondence and made long
videos denouncing me and installed in my
character nobody cared nobody was
interested in the facts of the matter it
was so easy for the same people who
supposedly supported me because it was
the right thing to do for the right
reasons to turn around on a dime and
condemn me and vilify me because of some
complete that in many cases
just obviously counter contrary to the
facts but nobody was interested in the
facts you know and I mean how many times
have we seen the audience or large parts
the audience turn on Charles turn on
cheetah because he's a homophobe because
he's racist because he's transphobic
whatever the cause of the moment is I've
got to tell you I think the way out of
that is what I've already covered in
this video that short but way too long I
think you've really got to develop the
discipline of asking a question in the
form of a question not an accusation not
a denunciation of someone's character
now I'm not really that interested but
if your question is if your question
really is Charles how do you feel about
transgender people you could ask that
question that could be a conversation in
a podcast with a guy he puts in so many
hours answering questions like that on
you now on YouTube he wouldn't be thrown
by that or offended by it he wouldn't be
hostile or defend this is nothing you
know any of these other people you know
there's so many people who denounced me
over things that could have just been
questions well you could have just asked
and I've seen other people making videos
defending me saying look I know that's
not true enough situation because I
asked him and he answered and we talked
about people who just asked me you know
um
I don't know man I mean I've said so
many times I'm worried about the future
of this medium I'm worried about digital
veganism obviously I'm worried about the
the future prospects of veganism proper
but I've never been more worried about
the short term future I've never been
more worried about the next six weeks or
the next six months
what does it mean to be a good person in
the 21st century what does it mean to
have personal integrity what does it
mean to have honor and dignity yourself
and what does it mean to treat other
people with honor and dignity even if
you disagree with them even if in some
sense they're your enemies